SURMA: So one thing
that really excited me--
I say excited.
It's both with
happiness and sadness--
is the announcement from
Adobe that by 2020, Flash
will officially be retired.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes, it
no longer [INAUDIBLE]
shipping the player.
It won't be on any browsers.
SURMA: It's done.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
It's bye, bye Flash.
SURMA: I know, right.
For me, it's like
things that need
to be addressed because
you relied on the plug-in.
And this plug-in, even
though it did great work,
was also occasionally known
for being not very safe.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right.
SURMA: And you could run
things on your computer that
wasn't supposed to be
running on your computer.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I loved
the ActiveX stuff.
I remember that there was one
released where you could create
a media player in ActiveX--
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: --Which
you would use to get media.
You could also iterate over
the CD drives on the computer.
And one of the functions
you could call was eject.
As soon as I found this out, I
was like, wow, that's amazing.
Typey type type,
send it to a friend,
and watch them
across the office.
And they open the thing--
Whoop whoop whoop.
SURMA: You say
enumerated CD drives,
immediately I picture a good 'ol
tower with like 16 CD drives.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: They
all just slide out.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
But thinking about the
things that flash brought us.
SURMA: I think it
had a huge impact
on setting a bar, what needs
to be possible on the web.
And it took us actually way
too long to get there, I think.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Absolutely.
Even one of the
most basic things
was if you brought
a PNG into flash,
it would work, even with
alpha channel, fine.
But then if you exported it--
you'd drop in like
a 120k PNG, and you
would get this like 30k
SWF out of the other end.
SURMA: That was magic.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Magic.
Like
SURMA: Magic.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
What it was doing
is it was encoding
the PNG as a JPEG
but then taking the alpha
channel out and keeping that
as a PNG and reapplying it.
So it was doing sort of
lossy with an alpha channel.
SURMA: Because I remember that
you could control the quality
when you exported
from flash, and you
would get the typical
JPEG blockified artifacts.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah,
it was JPEG, so--
SURMA: I didn't know that.
Actually I didn't
know that until now,
but now it explains everything.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But
if you think about it,
we are still struggling
with that on the web today.
SURMA: Pretty much.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: We've got WebP.
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But not
all browsers have it.
SURMA: Sadly not.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I think there's
a few alternate formats that
have that sort of lossy
of an alpha channel.
But it's incredible to think
of the very first versions
of Flash had that, and
we are still stuck.
Thinking about other things--
oh, with video, right,
on the web.
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It took
Opera many years later
to actually go, right,
we actually need this.
SURMA: And it was the only
platform that did anything
with DRM in the day, which
allowed big companies to bring
their content to the web
in, at least, one shape.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: The thing
is with dynamic video,
we only kind of
fairly recently have--
SURMA: True.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: --with
extended media extended source.
SURMA: Encrypted
media [INAUDIBLE]..
JAKE ARCHIBALD: No, it's
not the encrypted one.
It's the media
source extensions.
SURMA: Yes.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah,
and that's where you--
SURMA: See, Paul would know that
because he wrote the media app.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: He did.
Oh, we should get that guy back.
No, we should not.
SURMA: No we shouldn't.
You know what?
No.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But the
same is like with web audio.
That came much later
than Flash gave us it.
SURMA: Even now, we are at a
point where web animations are
still not widely supported
or cover all the use cases.
And that was the basic
feature of Flash.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Well, to be fair,
I still think in Flash for
doing actual animations,
people were very
reliant on GreenSock.
Any idea you could
do your animations,
but if you were animating
by code, time to get
GreenSock out.
SURMA: I guess, yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: There wasn't
a web animation type of thing.
SURMA: But it would be
great if part of the--
GreenSock is still alive,
and it's super good.
It would just be great
if you could just
remove a chunk of the code
and have it on the platform
as it is.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Oh
yeah, absolutely.
SURMA: Pretty much specified
as a web animation.
It's just that browsers don't
have it fully implemented.
And so they have to
reinvent the wheel
and make sure no restorations
happen and all these things.
And I'm hoping that this
deprecation will actually--
all these things that
we talked about--
push them forward quickly than
they've been moving so far.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah, I
remember when I9 came out,
and SVG became a thing that
we now had to cross browsers.
And then the war started late.
Developers were like
SVG, it's the answer
to all of our problems.
And another camp
were like, no, boo!
SVG's bad.
Canvas is the way forward.
And I remember like me,
as a Flash developer
and seeing other
Flash developers
saying the same thing, we're
like, well, the answer is both.
And coming from a
flash background,
well, you use the vector stuff
for vector and DOM-based things
for when you need
the interaction.
But if you just want to
draw something and then--
or even you might want to
draw something in vector
and turn it into a bitmap.
You might want to take a bitmap
and make it the background
to a vector shape.
And Flash really was
doing this 10 years ago.
SURMA: That's the the thing.
There's a tendency in the
entire community to take a tool
and make it the
tool for everything,
even though you want
to use different tools
for different purposes.
And I think we're
getting better at this.
But there's still tend to like
I want to learn one thing,
and it should cover everything.
So I only have to
learn this one thing
and not bother about the
ever evolving ecosystem.
And I don't think the web is a
good place for that mentality,
honestly.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well, yeah,
and I think one of the things
that we need from flash that
we don't have right now is
a good IDE for doing
those kind of animations.
So I know Adobe are working
on it or were working on it.
I can't remember which projects
they still have on the go.
But it feels like we're
losing a big group of people
who don't want to
write code but are
able to make amazing animations.
So that is sort of
a loss in platform,
or they've had to
go to something
like After Effects or something.
And now a developer
will have to recreate
all of that in the web.
So I hope we get there
with something like that.
SURMA: I feel like this
deprecation is, especially
for big companies, forcing
them to invest, really,
into replacing the
Flash tool that they had
with something that
is native to the web.
And then hopefully, the
entire ecosystem will benefit.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Whenever
I'm writing a talk,
I get the same problem.
I run out of things to say,
and then I'm sitting there,
going, well, that's that then.
SURMA: Bye then.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Bye.